---
aliases:
  - ui-path
  - UiPath
  - UiPath - overview
  - UiPath - Overview
tags: []
title: ui-path
---

# UiPath - Overview

## Tasks
Tasks to be developed:
1) Benchmarking of OCR models for use case
2) Pre-processing of PDF Files
3) AI Model Development for Field Extraction
4) Add re-training capabilities
5) Monitoring Dashboarding Development
6) Implementation of data security Roles
7) Implementation of Feedback loop in AI Model
8) Development of annotation Tool and rules engine
9) Automatic Model Deployment

-----------------
# UiPath Document Understanding

## OCR Component and Processing of Documents

Principal module: UiPath Document Understanding.

There is an OCR native to UiPath, UiPath Document OCR (has two variants: local server and cloud).

There is also an option to use Google OCR and Microsoft.

PDFs can be processed by native text or OCR. There is also an option that combines the best of both.

## Classification
After the documents are digitized, the classification module can split multi-page documents. Pre-trained classifiers are supplied, which generally take the form of non-GenAI solutions.

Highlights:
 - Option to use Keyword classifier - basic, can't split documents
 - Intelligent keyword - can split documents (UiPath model, don't know what it does)

## Extractors
There are several models for extraction ranging from RegEx extractors to IDP-like solutions. On this second type, they highlight two solutions, one for invoices and another for receipts.

As a side note, they say that some of the models can even accept straight PDFs and PNG/JPEG.

## Validation Station
When particularly challenging documents are found, the extraction can fail. This can be seen by having missing fields or the confidence displayed in an entry being `low` (this can be set). When this happens, the human is asked to enter the loop to give feedback. From what I gather, this can be used to further train the models being used.

Another way of detecting errors is to introduce business logic into the extraction step, such as:
  - Net amount plus tax amount must equal total amount
  - Sum of line amounts must equal the net amount
  - Quantity multiplied by unit price must equal line amount

This kind of thing can be set in the Taxonomy Manager component. There we can supply all the fields to be extracted from our document. There are predefined templates.



## Costs
There is something called AI unit represents credit to run certain task that acess the UiPath AI center. This can be consumed. 

# UiPath AI center




## On LLM usage
I've seen that there is someintegration. The provied example was after processing some files throught the extraction pipeline a GenAI solution was used to compose an email to be sent to the user. 






# Developement cycle
Expected time of 3-4 months. There are 1k-1.5k suppliers, only one probably needs OCR.


