---
aliases:
  - tcp ip eli
tags: []
title: tcp-ip-eli
---

# tcp ip eli

Logical devices: Router, Switch, modem, Firewall.
Vs
Physical devices: for instead the my case our router also has a switch.

Another example, there is something called `PoE` (Power over ethernet) this in fact can be an extra logical module inside a switch.

## Cache behaviour - a DNS story

For exameple in DNS resoltuion system acess a cache for faster responde. For instance, I have a cache with the info
eli-computer-guy.com --> 82.1.10.245, if for instance I buy that domain name and tell it to point to another IP, the machines tha previouslu acesse eli-computer-guy will still go to the old IP because their using the cached result.
This is the explication for the replication time.

## Ethernet standard

Works in a star topology, where a central hub or switches serves and central unit of distribution of messages.
With this we can get something that is called CSMA/CD - Collision domains, where two computers are trying to send messages at the same time. For wired this is not a problem, see why later.

On `WIFI` why this can be a problem since mutiple devices have to communicate using the same band.

# MAC address

Unique numbers, `vendor ID:Serial Number`, to each port available on each device. This is used at the Data-link layer.

# Layer 2 Networking

We have point-to-point connection which simply connect two hosts together.

Hubs that attach of splitters of messages to every host attached. This can give rise to collision domains.
The next invention was bridgeds. This attact as a connection between to hubs, and make it possible to only split the message to the correct hub by using a MAC address list. This way the HUB solution can scale and have less colision domains.

The next thing is a switch. The first time a computer tries to communicate with another computer the signal will be blast to all other available hosts. If there is a host with that MAC address then the switch will know that that specific MAC address is present on the switch's port. (The information is stores in a MAC address table)

With the switch thing the basic idea is that when a computer connect to a LAN it has an local IP and MAC address mapped into a ARP table (Address resolution protocol).
With a switch the idea is that there is a mapping between local IP and MAc address in Layer 3 devices such as PC and routers. Consider PC1 and PC2 both in the same LAN, and that PC1 wants to send data to PC2. Going into layer 2 (data-link layer) we have the IP-heard+data. We can see that this IP belongs to the same subnet do we check our local ARP table to see if we know the MAC address.
- [ ] 
## If we know the MAC address

We wrap this into a ethernet frame with the MAC address header. This frame is sent to the switch which as table mapping between MAC address's and switch ports.

## If we don't know the MAC address

PC1 will send an ARP request to know the MAC address. This will be a brodcast message interpreted by the switch to send to all devices. PC2 will see the message and response, this will not be broadcasted. PC1 updates the ARP table.
